doc: add bsdlib user guide for os adapting (#101)
NordicPlayground/nrfxlib: bsdlib/doc/ug_bsdlib_porting_os.rst

.. _bsdlib_ug_porting:

> User Guide: Porting the BSD library to your OS

Reviewer: Do we need "User Guide:" here?

Author: postponed

##############################################

The :ref:`bsdlib` from Nordic Semiconductor is an OS-agnostic C library.

> OS-specific parts are moved out and in order to use it with your OS or scheduler, you must first port it by creating a custom :file:`bsd_os.c` file which serves as an OS abstraction layer.

Author: postponed

> The library exposes a :file:`bsd_os.h` header file which defines the functions that must be implemented in :file:`bsd_os.c`.

Author: postponed

> The header file also exposes what functions are provided by the library that the OS integration module must interface.

Author: postponed

The following diagram presents the BSD OS abstraction layer.
Arrows indicate that the elements can communicate with each other directly.

.. figure:: images/bsd_lib_layers.svg
   :alt: BSD OS abstraction overview

   BSD OS abstraction overview

Creating the OS abstraction layer
*********************************

To create a BSD OS abstraction layer, you must implement a number of functions in the :file:`bsd_os.c` file.

bsd_os_init
~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is called by the BSD library when the application has issued ``bsd_init()``.
It is responsible for preparing IRQ for low priority BSD scheduling and trace scheduling.

.. note::

>    When working with an application based on Zephyr, set the IRQ’s to a low priority (6 or 7) and enable them before exiting the function.

Author: postponed

> The function must also initialize timers and threads, which is required in case of a context that needs a timeout.

Author: postponed

> If Nordic Proprietary trace is enabled, the medium for where to forward the trace must also be configured in this function.

Reviewer 2: That's the trace output from the modem via `bsdlib`, which is in a binary format (not human-readable).

*Required actions*:

* Initialize timers/threads.
* Configure low priority BSD scheduling IRQ (SoftIRQ).
* Configure low priority trace scheduling IRQ (SoftIRQ).

> * Configure medium for trace (UART/SPI etc.).

Author: postponed

bsd_os_timedwait
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is called by the BSD library when a timed context or sleep is required.
A blind return value of 0 will make all BSD library operations always blocking.

*Required actions* to make the operations non-blocking:

> * Start counting the time (this can be based on a Timer or Thread for instance).

Author: postponed

* Report back the remaining time of the timer if the specific timer is interrupted.

> * If timed out, report NRF_ETIMEDOUT.

Author: postponed

bsd_os_errno_set
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This function translates errno’s from the BSD library to the OS-defined ones.

Author: postponed

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is called by the BSD library when the library wants to clear IRQ on the low priority BSD library scheduling IRQ.

*Required action*:

* Clear the low priority BSD library scheduling IRQ using OS primitives or NVIC functions.

bsd_os_application_irq_set
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is called by the BSD library when the library wants to set a pending IRQ on the low priority BSD library scheduling IRQ.

*Required action*:

* Set a pending IRQ on the low priority BSD library scheduling IRQ using OS primitives or NVIC functions.

bsd_os_trace_irq_clear
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is called by the BSD library when the library wants to clear IRQ on the low priority trace scheduling IRQ.

*Required action*:

* Clear the low priority trace scheduling IRQ using OS primitives or NVIC functions.

bsd_os_trace_irq_set
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is called by the BSD library when the library wants to set a pending IRQ on the low priority trace scheduling IRQ.

*Required action*:

* Set a pending IRQ on the low priority trace scheduling IRQ using OS primitives or NVIC functions.

bsd_os_trace_put
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> This function puts the trace string to the desired medium, typically UART.

Author: postponed

However, the medium used to forward and store the traces is up to the implementation and must be initialized correctly before used.
If you are not interested in traces, they can be ignored and this function can be empty and simply return.

bsd_os_application_irq_handler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is implemented in the BSD library and must be called upon the low priority BSD library IRQ handler, triggered by the :cpp:func:`bsd_os_application_irq_set` function.

bsd_os_trace_irq_handler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This function is implemented in the BSD library and must be called upon the low priority trace IRQ handler, triggered by the :cpp:func:`bsd_os_trace_irq_set` function.

> Other scenarios to handle in bsd_os.c

Author: postponed

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. In case the OS has its own IRQ handler scheme, not directly forwarding the IPC_IRQHandler to the BSD library, this must be routed by the OS.

>    The OS must call IPC_IRQHandler() upon all IRQs with IRQ number IPC_IRQn.

Author: postponed

#. In :file:`bsd_os.c`, you can configure a desired medium for forwarding trace data upon :cpp:func:`bsd_os_trace_put` calls .

> 

Reviewer: In the PDF, both of these show up as 1.

Author: this was fixed in a later commit

Memory
******

The BSD library must have a region of absolute positioned RAM.
The region must be configured as non-secure RAM by the secure application.
The starting address of this region must be 0x20010000, and the size of the block is 0xC020 bytes.

The secure domain memory is divided into segments of 8 KB RAM blocks.
Because the size of the BSD library block is 0xC020 bytes, it is not aligned to full 8 KB blocks.
It occupies six blocks and a small part of a seventh block.

> The leftover memory in that seventh block (8160 bytes, starting at address 0x2001 c020) is configured as non-secure, but it can be used by the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The leftover memory in that seventh block (8160 bytes, starting at address 0x2001C020) is configured as non-secure, but it can be used by the application.
```

> The following RAM overview diagram shows where in the sequential RAM the BSD library must be positioned, and also indicates the important memory position values. The dotted lines represent 8 KB memory blocks. Note that the BSD library occupies more than six full blocks.

Reviewer: line breaks

.. figure:: images/bsd_lib_memory.svg
   :alt: BSD library memory overview

>    BSD library memory overview

Reviewer: The 0x000 FFFF in the figure can't be correct, or am I all off here?

Reviewer 2: Well, it should be 8 digits.
So `0x0000FFFF` would be correct but I see no reason why it couldn't be simplified `0xFFFF`.

Reviewer: But it's between 0x2000 0000 and 0x2001 0000 - so I guess it should be 0x2000 FFFF?

Author: postponed, will clarify with Glenn

* NRF_IPC
* NRF_POWER

If you are using the hard-float variant of the BSD library, the FPU must be activated in both the secure domain and the non-secure domain, and must be configured to allow the non-secure application to run FPU instructions.

The :file:`nrfx/mdk/system_nrf9160.c` file provides a template on how to configure the FPU in both cases.
The system file also provides several Errata workarounds specific to the chip variant used, which are needed for any secure domain application.

Message sequence diagrams
*************************

The following message sequence diagrams show the interactions between the application, BSD library, and the OS.

1. Sequence of the initialization of the BSD library.
   Configuration of the high and low priority IRQs.

.. figure:: images/msc_init.png
   :alt: Initialization (main thread)

   Initialization (main thread)

2. Handling an event sent from the BSD library to a lower priority to be able to receive new events.

.. figure:: images/msc_event.png
   :alt: Event handling, lowering priority

   Event handling, lowering priority

> 3. Handling traces:

Reviewer: Should be consistent with . or :

Author: postponed

.. figure:: images/msc_trace.png
   :alt: Trace handling, lowering priority

   Trace handling, lowering priority

> 4. Handling a timeout or sleep:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Handling a time-out or sleep:
```

Author: postponed
